'\" t
.\" the previous line makes man call tbl
.TH XCOAST 1 "Release 3.0, pl0"
.SH NAME
xcoast \- interactive coastline drawing for gridpak
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xcoast
[\fIoptions\fP]
[\fIfile\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xcoast 
is a menu-driven tool that allows the user to view coastlines from a
data file and to draw lines over them.  These lines may be saved to
a file and used as the grid boundary in \fIgridpak\fP.  The look and
feel (and code) is derived from \fIxfig\fP version 2.1.x.
.B It runs under X version 11
.B release 4 or higher
and requires a two- or three-button mouse.
.I file
specifies the name of a file to be edited. The description of
boundaries and the projection in the file will be read at the start of
\fIxcoast\fP.
.PP
When using a two-button mouse
use the <Meta> key and the right button at the same time to effect
the action of the middle button (not tested).
.PP
Note: the coastline file format has changed back to the one used by
\fIxcoast\fP version 1.0.  We once again have a higher resolution
global coastline.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-bg \fIcolor\fP
Use \fIcolor\fP as the background color for the canvas and buttons.
.TP
\fB-bol[d]\fP \fIfont\fP
Cause the font used for displaying confirmation messages to be
\fIfont\fP (default = 8x13bold).
.TP
\fB-bu[tton]\fP \fIfont\fP
Cause the font used for most buttons to be \fIfont\fP (default = 6x13).
.TP
\fB-data\fP \fIfile\fP
Cause the file read for the coastline data to be \fIfile\fP.
.TP
\fB-de\fP
Turn on debugging mode (for running \fIxcoast\fP under dbx).
.TP
.B \-fg \fIcolor\fP
Use \fIcolor\fP as the foreground color and default color for objects.
.TP
\fB-geom[etry]\fP \fIWxH+X+Y\fP
Specifies the geometry for \fIxcoast\fP application.
.TP
\fB-iconG[eometry]\fP \fI+X+Y\fP
Specifies the position for the icon.
.TP
.B \-internalBW \fIwidth\fP
Use lines of width \fIwidth\fP between all buttons and panels
(default = 1).
.TP
\fB-inv\fP
Use inverse video (white on black).
.TP
.B \-le[ft]
Change the position of the side panel window to the left of the
canvas window.
.TP
.B \-mo[nochrome]
Use black and white only.
.TP
\fB-nor[mal]\fP \fIfont\fP
Cause the font used for the message panel and ruler numbers to be
\fIfont\fP.  This font is also used on the canvas when the selected
font is not available in an X11 font (default = fixed).
.TP
.B \-not[rack]
Turn off cursor (mouse) tracking arrows.
.TP
\fB-ph\fP \fIunits\fP
Make \fIxcoast\fP come up \fIunits\fP high (where units are cm).
.TP
\fB-pw\fP \fIunits\fP
Make \fIxcoast\fP come up \fIunits\fP wide (where units are cm).
.TP
.B \-ri[ght]
Change the position of the side panel window to the right of the
canvas window (default: left).
.TP
.B \-sc[alablefonts]
Allows use of the X11R5 scalable fonts.
.TP
.B \-nosc[alablefonts]
Disables use of the X11R5 scalable fonts.  You might want to use
this for debugging.
.TP
.B \-sh[owallbuttons]\fP
Show all the \fIxcoast\fP indicator buttons instead of only those
relevant to the current drawing mode.  Normally, the buttons \fIline
width\fP, \fIgrid mode\fP, etc. are only visible when they are relevant
to the current drawing mode.  The \fB-showallbuttons\fP option makes
all of the indicator buttons visible at all times.  This takes up more
screen real estate, but allows the user to see all settable
parameters.
.TP
.B \-tr[ack]
Turn on cursor (mouse) tracking arrows (default).
.SH "COASTLINE DATA FILE"
In order to draw the coastlines, a data file must be provided.  A
number of ways to specify the coastline file are available.  The
command line option \fB-data\fI file\fR takes precedence over any
others.  Second is the environment variable \fIXCOASTDATA\fP.
Finally, if no other data file has been specified, the file
\fIcoastdb.dat\fP in the current directory is used.
.SH "GRAPHICAL OBJECTS"
The objects in \fIxcoast\fP are divided into \fBprimitive objects,
coastline objects\fP, and \fBgrid objects\fP.  Coastline objects are
drawn from a coastline database once a map projection has been chosen.
Grid objects show lines of constant longitude and latitude.  The
primitive objects are \fIPOLYLINE\fP and \fISPLINE\fP.  The points
within a primitive object are stored as a linked-list and are written
to disk in the order in which they are drawn.  They should be drawn in
a counter-clockwise direction if they are going to be read by the
\fIgrid\fP program.  However, the objects themselves will not be
written in any reliable order and must be put into the correct order
with an editor.
.PP
A primitive can have its points be moved, deleted or added, or the
whole object can be deleted.  In a \fBsave\fP operation, the
primitive objects are saved as are the map projection parameters.
After a restore, the coastline and grid objects must be rebuilt from
the map projection information.
.SH "DISPLAY WINDOWS"
Ten regions comprise the display area of \fIxcoast\fP: the command
region, top ruler, side ruler, drawing mode region, editing mode
region, filename region, message region, mouse function indicator
region and canvas region, and indicator region with buttons to set and
show current line thickness, line style, color, and several other
settings.  (The mouse function indicator region was inspired by the UPS
debugger from the University of Kent.) The drawing and editing mode
regions may be placed (together) to the left or right of the the canvas
window (default: left).
.SH "COMMAND PANEL FUNCTIONS"
.TP
.I Quit
Exit from \fIxcoast\fP, discarding the figure. If the figure has been
modified and not saved, the user will be asked to
confirm the action, by clicking mouse button 1 on a confirm/cancel
popup menu.
.TP
.I Delete ALL
Delete all objects from the canvas window (may be undone).
.TP
.I Undo
Undo the last object creation, deletion or modification.
.TP
.I Redraw
Redraw the canvas.
.TP
.I Map Proj
Pressing mouse button 1 or \fI<Meta>p\fP pops up a menu with several
projection parameter widgets:
.PP
.po +.5i
.nr LL 6i
.TP
.I Projection
This is a SimpleMenu widget which offers you a choice of conformal
projections - Mercator, Conformal Conic, and Stereographic.
.TP
.I Latitude
This is an AsciiTextWidget containing the central (tangent)
latitude of the map projection.
.TP
.I Longitude
This is an AsciiTextWidget containing the central longitude of the
map projection.
.TP
.I Rotation
This is an AsciiTextWidget containing the rotation angle of the map
projection.  For the Conic projection, this is the second tangent
latitude instead.
.IP
.po -.5i
.I Lower left latitude
.br
.I Lower left longitude
.br
.I Upper right latitude
.br
.I Upper right longitude
.br
.po +.5i
These four AsciiTextWidgets define the bounding rectangle of the
region to be drawn.  This region may not have the same aspect ratio
as the display canvas, in which case the bounding rectangle is
expanded to fill the canvas.  Note that plots made with NCAR
graphics using the same bounds will not expand in this way.
.TP
.I Cancel
Pressing this button or \fI<Meta>c\fP will pop down the \fIProjection\fP
panel without making any changes to the map projection or domain
bounds.
.TP
.I Set
Pressing this button or \fI<Meta>s\fP will initialize the map
projection information.  It will also tell it to start drawing the
coastlines using that map projection.
.PP
.po -.5i
.nr LL 6.5i
.TP
.I File
Pressing mouse button 3 on this button invokes \fISave\fP function
without popping up the file panel.
.PP
When you ask \fIxcoast\fP to do a save operation, four files are
created.  These are the \fIxfig\fP-like file, the file for use by
\fIgrid\fP, the projection file which is included by \fItolat\fP, and a
file used by the SEOM grid tools.
When you provide the filename these files will be:
.TP
.I filename
This is the private \fIxcoast\fP file that is used when you read in
a file.  It contains the projection information and the splines and
polylines that you have drawn.  The coastline information is not
saved and will have to be redrawn by going to the
\fIProjection\fP popup menu and clicking on \fIset\fP.
.TP
\fIfilename\fP.M
This is a file containing the coastline information \fBalmost\fP in the
form expected by \fIgrid\fP.  It must be edited to make sure that
the corners meet and that the line segments are in the correct
order.  The line segments are stored as linked lists and are written
to this file in a quasi-random order.  Points within each linked
list are in the order drawn.
.TP
\fIfilename\fP.proj
This is a file with the projection information needed by \fItolat\fP
and by \fIplothist\fP (if you ask for coastline drawing).  It
should be renamed to proj.h before you do a \fImake tolat\fP.
.TP
\fIfilename\fP.uv
This is a file containing the projection information and the grid
boundary information in the map projection's \fIu,v\fP coordinate
system.  The program \fIto_latlon\fP can be used to convert these
values to latitude, longitude.
.PP
Mouse button 1 or \fI<Meta>f\fP pops up a panel which contains
several file-related functions:
.PP
.po +.5i
.nr LL 6i
.TP
.I Current Filename
This is read-only AsciiTextWidget which contains the filename that
will be used
to write output to a file \fIif there is no name specified in\fP the
\fIFilename\fP panel.
.TP
.I Filename
This is an editable AsciiTextWidget which contains the filename
selected
either by clicking on a filename from the \fIAlternatives\fP list or
by typing a name in directly.
Pressing return in the Filename window will \fILoad\fP the file and
copy
the name to the \fICurrent Filename\fP widget.
.TP
.I (File) Alternatives
Pressing mouse button 1 on a filename in the file alternatives
window will select that file by copying the filename into
\fIFilename\fP window.  Pressing return in this window will \fILoad\fP
the file specified in the
\fIFilename\fP window (if any) or the \fICurrent Filename\fP widget.
.TP
.I Filename Mask
A wildcard mask may be typed into this editable AsciiTextWidget to
restrict the search of filenames to a subset ala the \fIls\fP command.
Pressing return in this window will automatically rescan the current
directory.  This string may be set by setting the X toolkit resource
\fB*file_panel*mask*string\fP.
.TP
.I Current Directory
This is an editable AsciiTextWidget which shows the current directory.
It may be modified by the user to manually set a directory name.  When
return is pressed in this window the directory specified is scanned for
files matching the \fIFilenamemask\fP, if any.

The ~ (tilde) character may be used to specify a user's home
directory, ala unix shell tilde expansion.
.TP
.I (Directory) Alternatives
Pressing mouse button 1 on a directory name in the directory
alternatives list will do a "change directory" to that directory.

Pressing mouse button 3 in either the file or \fIDirectory
Alternatives\fP window will do a "change directory" to the parent
directory.
.TP
.I Home
Pressing this button will change the directory to the \f3$HOME\f1
directory of the user.
.TP
.I Rescan
Pressing this button or \fI<Meta>r\fP will rescan the
current directory.
.TP
.I Cancel
Pressing this button or \fI<Meta>c\fP will pop down the \fIFile\fP
panel without making any changes to the directory or file name.
.TP
.I Save
Pressing this button or \fI<Meta>s\fP will save the current contents of
the canvas in the file specified in the \fIFilename\fP window \fIif
any\fP, or the name specified in the \fICurrent Filename\fP if the
former is empty.  If the file already exists a confirmation popup menu
will appear asking the user to confirm or cancel the save.  If there is
a filename in the \fIFilename\fP window it is copied to the \fICurrent
Filename\fP window.
.TP
.I Load
Pressing this button or \fI<Meta>l\fP will clear the canvas of any
current figure and read the figure from the filename specified in the
\fIFilename\fP menu item \fIif any\fP, or the name specified in the
\fICurrent Filename\fP if the former is empty.  If there is a figure
currently on the canvas and any modifications have been made to it and
not saved, a popup query window will first appear asking if the user
wishes to discard the current figure or cancel the \fILoad\fP
operation.
This window can be popped down by clicking the mouse button on the
\fIDismiss\fP button.
.IP
\fIxcoast\fP is able to read files created by version 1.0 of
\fIxcoast\fP, but your lines no longer overlay the coastlines.
This may or may not be fixable.
.TP
.I Merge Read
Pressing this button or \fI<Meta>r\fP will read the figure from the
filename specified in the \fIFilename\fP window \fIif any\fP, or the
name specified in the \fICurrent Filename\fP if the former is empty,
and merge it with the figure already shown on the canvas.

See \fILoad\fP above for a description of the popup message window.
.PP
.po -.5i
.nr LL 6.5i
.SH "INDICATOR PANEL COMMAND DESCRIPTIONS"
.PP
The indicator panel contains buttons to set certain drawing parameters
such as line thickness, canvas grid, color, etc.  All of the buttons
use the same mouse buttons for setting values.  Pressing mouse button 1
on the indicator will pop up a panel in which either a value may be
typed (e.g. for a line thickness) or the mouse may be clicked on one of
several buttons (e.g. for color).  For those that expect a value,
pressing return in the value part of the window will set the new value
and pop down the menu.
.PP
Pressing mouse button 2 on an indicator will decrement the value (e.g.
for line thickness) or cycle through the options in one direction (e.g.
line styles), while pressing mouse button 3 will increment the value or
cycle through the options in the other direction.
.TP
.I ZOOM SCALE
The canvas zoom scale may be set/increased/decreased with this button.
The zoom scale is displayed within the zoom button. The ruler and grid
are scaled, too.  Pressing mouse button 2 will decrease the zoom factor
by 1.0 unless it is less than 1.0 already in which case it will reduce
to the nearest 0.25.  Pressing mouse button 3 will increase the zoom
factor by 1.0 unless it is less than 1.0 in which case it will increase
it to the nearest 0.25.  Pressing the control key and mouse button 3
together will set the zoom scale to 1.
.sp
The figure may also be zoomed by defining a zoom rectangle by pressing
the control key and mouse button 1 together.  This will define one
corner of the zoom rectangle.  Move the mouse and click mouse button 1
again to define the opposite corner of the zoom rectangle.
.TP
.I GRID MODE
With this button the user selects whether or not to draw the
latitude/longitude lines.
.TP
.I GRID SCALE
Select the density of latitude/longitude lines to draw if \fIGRID
MODE\fP is selected.  An integer number of lines are drawn for each
ten degree square, constraining the allowable values.  NOTE: the
number in the pop-up window is the integer number of grid lines per
ten degrees, not the grid line spacing.
.TP
.I COLOR
The user may select one of eight predefined colors to draw with, or
select that the \fIdefault\fP (-fg) color is to be used.  The eight
colors are black, blue, green, cyan, red, magenta, yellow and white.
On monochrome screens the objects are created with the selected color,
but black is used to draw the objects on the canvas.
.TP
.I LINE WIDTH
The width of lines may be selected with this button.  Zero width lines
may be drawn but are not useful.  Coastlines are drawn with a width
of one, while the default width of splines and polylines is two.
.TP
.I LINE STYLE
The choices for line style are solid, dashed and dotted.  Once created,
a dashed or dotted line may be updated to change the length of dashes or
the spacing of dots respectively.  The dash length and dot gap can be
changed from the default using the popup menu.
.SH "DRAWING AND EDITING MODE PANELS"
Icons in the drawing and editing mode panel windows represent object
manipulation functions, modes and other drawing or modification aids.
Manipulation functions are selected by positioning the cursor over the
icon representing the desired drawing/editing function and clicking
mouse button 1.  The selected icon is highlighted, and a message
describing its function appears in the message window.  The hilighting
remains on until another function is selected.
.SH "DRAWING MODE PANEL COMMAND DESCRIPTIONS"
.PP
The drawing mode panel contains buttons used to create the various
\fIxcoast\fP objects.  Once the drawing mode is selected, the object is
created by moving the mouse to the point on the canvas where the object
is to be placed and pressing and releasing mouse button 1.  After that
the mouse is moved to the second point and mouse button 1 is again
pressed.  Mouse button 1 is pressed for each successive point, and
mouse button 2 must be pressed to finish the object.
.PP
At any time mouse button 3 may be pressed to cancel the
creation of the object.
.TP
.I POLYLINE
Create polylines (line segments connecting a sequence of points).
Enter points by clicking mouse button 1 at the desired positions on the
canvas window.  Click mouse button 2 to finish.  To create a single
point using the \fIPOLYLINE\fP button, press and release mouse button
2.
.TP
.I INTERPOLATED SPLINE
Create (cubic spline) spline objects.  Enter control vectors in the
same way as for creation of a \fIPOLYLINE\fP object.  At least three
points (two control vectors) must be entered.  The spline will pass
through the entered points.

.SH "EDITING MODE PANEL COMMAND DESCRIPTIONS"
When a button in the editing mode panel is pressed, any objects that
may be affected by that editing operation will show their corner
markers.  Coastlines cannot be edited and do not have markers.

.SH "SELECTING OBJECTS"
When multiple objects have points in common, e.g. two polylines that
touch one another, only one object can be selected by clicking on that
point. To select other objects, hold down the shift key while pressing
mouse button 1: the markers of one object will be temporarily
highlighted.  By repeatedly clicking mouse button 1 while holding down
the shift key, it is possible to cycle through all candidates for
selection at that point. To perform the selected action, e.g.  deleting
one box, click on the point without holding down the shift key.  The
operation will be performed on the highlighted object.

\fBNote:\fP
If the mouse is not clicked near enough to an object marker or for
whatever reason \fIxcoast\fP cannot "find" the object the user is trying
to select, a black square will temporarily appear above the mouse
cursor.
.TP
.I MOVE POINT
Modify the position of a point of \fIPOLYLINE\fP and \fISPLINE\fP
objects.  For unrestrained movement, click mouse button 1 over the
desired point, reposition the point, and click the \fIleft\fP button
again.  For horizontally or vertically constrained move, click mouse
button 2 on the desired point and move either horizontally or
vertically.  Notice that once you choose the direction (horizontal or
vertical), movement is constrained in that direction.  If, after moving
the mouse initially, it is moved in the other direction a greater
distance than the current position of the mouse relative to the
starting point, then that will be the new constraint direction.  In
otherwords if you first move the mouse \fIhorizontally\fP one cm (say)
then move it \fIvertically\fP 1.3 cm, the direction will switch to
\fIvertical\fP until any \fIhorizontal\fP motion exceeds 1.3 cm.  When
the object is positioned where desired, click mouse button 1 to place
it if that button was used to start the move (unconstrained), or mouse
button 2 (constrained) if that button was used.
.TP
.I ADD POINTS
Add points to \fIPOLYLINE\fP and \fISPLINE\fP objects.
.TP
.I DELETE POINTS
Delete points from \fIPOLYLINE\fP and \fISPLINE\fP objects.
.TP
.I DELETE
Click mouse button 1 on an object to delete the object.  Delete a
\fIregion\fP of the canvas by clicking mouse button 2 and dragging the
mouse to define an area of objects to delete.
.TP
.I UPDATE
By pressing mouse button 1 on an object, the current settings for the
indicator buttons (line width, line style, color, etc.) which have been
selected for update are copied into that object.  When \fIxcoast\fP is
started, all indicator buttons which are components of objects are
selected for update.  To unselect an indicator, click on the update
button and click mouse button 1 on the small button in the upper-right
corner of the indicator.  When that indicator is selected the
foreground color (default black) shows.  When it is unselected the
background color (default white) shows.
.sp
If mouse button 2 is clicked on an object, the settings in the object
that are selected by the indicator buttons are copied into those
indicator button settings.  Thus, one may copy selected attributes of
one object to another.
.TP
.I SPLINE <-> POLYLINE
Turn a \fIPOLYLINE\fP into an \fIINTERPOLATED SPLINE\fP object or vice
versa.
.SH "PANNING"
The figure may be panned by clicking mouse button 1, 2 or 3 in the
rulers.  Clicking mouse button 1 in the top ruler will pan the image to
the left by 2 cm, adjusted for zoom factor. Clicking mouse button 3 in
the top ruler will pan the image right by the same amount.  By pressing
and \fIholding\fP mouse button 2 the user may drag the ruler by the
amount desired, thus panning with more control.
.PP
The figure is panned up and down in the same way by clicking the mouse
in the ruler on the right of the canvas.  Also, the figure can be
returned to its origin by clicking mouse button 1 in the home box.
.PP
The arrow keys may also be used to pan the image and the home key to
return the figure to the origin.  Also, pressing the Control Key and
mouse button 2 will pan the figure to the origin.

.SH X DEFAULTS
The overall widget name(Class) is xcoast(XCoast).  These
resources correspond to the command line arguments:
.nf
.sp
.TS
L 1 L 1 L 1 L 1 L.
Name    Class   Type    Default Command-line equivalent
_
justify Justify         boolean false   -left (false) and -right (true)
pwidth  Width   float   24  -pwidth
pheight Height  float   24  -pheight
trackCursor     Track   boolean on      -track and -notrack
reverseVideo    ReverseVideo    boolean off     -inverse
debug   Debug   boolean off     -debug
normalFont      NormalFont      string  fixed   -normal
boldFont        ButtonFont      string  8x13bold        -bold
showallbuttons  ShowAllButtons  boolean false   -showallbuttons
internalborderwidth     InternalBorderWidth     integer 1 -internalBW
scalablefonts   ScalableFonts   boolean false   -scalablefonts
monochrome      Monochrome      boolean false   -monochrome
flushleft       FlushLeft       boolean false   -flushleft
color0  Color0  pixel   black
color1  Color1  pixel   blue
color2  Color2  pixel   green
color3  Color3  pixel   cyan
color4  Color4  pixel   red
color5  Color5  pixel   magenta
color6  Color6  pixel   yellow
color7  Color7  pixel   white
_
.TE
The following are the default keyboard accelerators as distributed
in the XCoast.ad app-defaults file:
.TS
l l.
Keys (Context)  Function
(Main xcoast panels)
<Meta>q Quit xcoast
<Meta>d Delete all objects from canvas
<Meta>u Undo
<Meta>r Redraw
<Meta>f popup File menu
<Meta>p popup Projection menu
<Meta>l (re)Load figure from current file
<Meta>s Save figure to current file

(Popup file panel)
<Meta>r Rescan current directory
<Meta>c Cancel
<Meta>l Load figure
<Meta>s Save figure
<Meta>m Merge read into current figure

.TE
.fi
.SH WIDGET TREE
Below is the widget structure of \fIxcoast\fP.
The widget class name is given first, followed by the widget
instance name.
.nf
.ta .5i 1i 1.5i 2i 2.5i 3i 3.5i 4i 4.5i

XCoast  xcoast
        Form  form
                Form  commands
                        Command  quit
                        Command  delete_all
                        Command  undo
                        Command  redraw
                        Command  file
                        Command  mapproj
                Form msg_form
                        Label  file_name
                        Text  message
                Box  mode_panel
                        Label  label
                        Command  button (one for each of the 2 drawing mode buttons)
                        Label  label
                        Command  button (one for each of the 6 editing mode buttons)
                Label  topruler
                Label  canvas
                Label  unitbox
                Label  sideruler
                Viewport ind_viewport
                        Core  clip
                        Scrollbar  horizontal
                        Box  ind_panel
                                Form  button_form (one for each of the 5 indicator buttons)
                                        Command  button
                                        Toggle  update (only those indicators that affect creation
                                                        of objects have update toggles)

        TransientShell  xfig_file_menu
                Form  file_panel
                        Label  file_status
                        Label  num_objects
                        Label  cur_file_label
                        Text  cur_file_name
                        Label  file_label
                        Text  file_name
                        Label file_alt_label
                        Viewport  vport
                                Core  clip
                                Scrollbar  vertical
                                List  file_list_panel
                        Label  mask_label
                        Text  mask
                        Label  dir_label
                        Text  dir_name
                        Label  dir_alt_label
                        Command home
                        Viewport  dirvport
                                Core  clip
                                Scrollbar  vertical
                                List  dir_list_panel
                        Command  rescan
                        Command  cancel
                        Command  save
                        Command  load
                        Command  merge

        TransientShell  xfig_file_msg
                Form  file_msg_panel
                        Text  file_msg_win
                        Command  dismiss

        TransientShell  query_popup
                Form  query_form
                        Label  message
                        Command  yes
                        Command  no
                        Command  cancel

        TransientShell  xfig_set_proj_panel
                Form  form
                        Label        Map Projections/Limits
                        Label  Projection  =
                        MenuButton  Mercator
                                SimpleMenu  menu
                                        SmeBSB  Mercator
                                        SmeBSB  Conformal Conic
                                        SmeBSB  Stereographic
                        Label  Latitude =
                        Text   latitude
                        Label  Longitude =
                        Text   longitude
                        Label  Rotation =
                        Text   rotation
                        Label  Lower left Latitude =
                        Text   minmax
                        Label  Lower left Longitude =
                        Text   minmax
                        Label  Upper right Latitude =
                        Text   minmax
                        Label  Upper right Longitude =
                        Text   minmax
                        Command  cancel
                        Command  set
.fi
.SH BUGS and RESTRICTIONS
Please send bug reports, fixes, new features etc. to:
.br
kate@ahab.rutgers.edu
(Kate Hedstrom)
.PP
The order in which the primitive objects are written to disk should
be the same as the order in which they were created.
.PP
Not all operations employ smart redrawing of objects which are altered
as a by product of the operation.  You may need to use \fIRedraw\fP in
these cases.
.PP
Must compile \fIxcoast\fP with \fB-DOPENWIN\fP in order to make
\fIxcoast\fP handle OpenWindows scalable fonts correctly.
.PP
Some servers do not allow bitmaps/pixmaps taller than the screen height
or wider than the screen width.  That is why there is a limit on the
width of the top ruler and height of the side ruler.  If you need
wider/taller rulers AND your server allows bigger pixmaps, you may
define MAX_TOPRULER_WD and/or MAX_SIDERULER_HT in your Imakefile in the
DEFINES line.  For example, to have a maximum top ruler width of 1160
pixels, add -DMAX_TOPRULER_WD=1160 to your DEFINES line in the
Imakefile.
.PP
There is a bug in OpenWindows 2.0 which relates to pixmaps in widgets.
You must compile \fIxcoast\fP with the \fB-DOPENWIN_BUG\fP option for
this problem.
.PP
If the image is panned or the \fIxcoast\fP window iconified and
de-iconified during the middle of an operation (e.g. while drawing a
line), the picture will be distorted.  This can be corrected using
\fIRedraw\fP after the operation is complete.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Wilkin and Hedstrom
.I "Unfinished gridpak manual"
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
.SH COPYRIGHT
Original Copyright (c) 1985 by Supoj Sutanthavibul
.PP
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software
and its
documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that
the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
documentation. No representations are made about suitability of this
software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or
implied warranty.
.SH AUTHORS
\fIxcoast\fP is based on \fIxfig\fP 2.1, to which
many people have contributed.  Here is a list of the
people who have contributed the most (in chronological order):
.sp
Original author:
.br
Supoj Sutanthavibul, University of Texas at Austin
.sp
Original X11 port by:
.br
Ken Yap, Rochester
.sp
Variable window sizes, cleanup of X11 port, right hand side panel:
.br
Dana Chee, Bellcore
.sp
Cleanup of color port to X11 by:
.br
John T. Kohl, MIT
.sp
\fBVersion 2.0:\fP
.br
Multiple line thicknesses,
bottom panel, line style/thickness modification of objects by:
.br
Brian V. Smith, Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory
.br
(standard disclaimer applies)
.br
(bvsmith@lbl.gov)
.sp
Popup change-object menu by:
.br
Jon Tombs
.br
Frank Schmuck
.sp
Zooming and panning functions, shift key select mechanism by:
.br
Dieter Pellkofer
.br
Henning Spruth
.sp
\fBVersion 2.1:\fP
.br
Indicator panel, file menu popup, print menu popup, panning with
rulers, mouse function window, dashed/dotted splines on canvas, update
button, constrained copy/move, context sensitive corner markers,
smarter redraw, cancel object creation, save of figure on crash by:
.sp
Paul King (king@cs.uq.oz.au)
.br
with help from:
.br
Brian V. Smith (bvsmith@lbl.gov) and Micah Beck (beck@cs.cornell.edu)
.sp
Color implementation and pan/zoom with ctrl key/mouse by:
.br
Henning Spruth
.sp
Directory Browser based on XDir by:
.br
Win Treese, Digital Equipment Corporation
.sp
Many bug fixes/cleanups etc. by a host of faithful users
.br
See the xfig CHANGES file for all the credits.
.sp
\fBxcoast 1.0:\fP
.br
xfig 2.0 turned into xcoast by:
.br
Kate Hedstrom
.br
and
.br
Eddie Parker
.sp
\fBxcoast 2.0:\fP
.br
Updated to xfig 2.1.7 and incorporated some of the GIS described in
Lukatela and Russell.  This includes the coastline file, checking for
coastline chunks being off screen, and the latitude/longitude grid.
.sp
\fBxcoast 3.0:\fP
.br
I went back to the original style of coastline file since it is easier
to produce than the version 2 style.  Also, the version 2 style didn't
seem to be a big win with my ascii implimentation of it.
.sp
I also made the Mercator projection more general.  It no longer
requires that you use an equatorial central latitude with zero rotation
angle.
.br
Kate Hedstrom
.br
(kate@ahab.rutgers.edu)
